=pod

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Mojolicious::Plugin::CHI::Route - Cache renderings based on routes

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  # Mojolicious
  $app->plugin('CHI::Route');
  $app->routes->get('/foo')->requires('chi')->to(
    cb => sub {
      shift->render(
        text => 'This will be served from cache next time!'
      );
    }
  )

  # Mojolicious::Lite
  use Mojolicious::Lite;

  plugin 'CHI::Route';

  get '/foo' => (chi => { expires_in => '5 hours' }) => sub {
    shift->render(
      text => 'This will be served from cache next time!'
    );
  }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

L<Mojolicious::Plugin::CHI::Route> enables caching on the router level
by using L<Mojolicious::Plugin::CHI>.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 register

Called when registering the plugin.

The registration accepts the following parameters:

=over 2

=item key

The default key callback for all routes.
Defaults to the absolute URL of the request.

=item namespace

Define the L<CHI> namespace for the cached renderings.
Defaults to C<default>.
It is beneficial to use a separate namespace to easily
L<purge|Mojolicious::Plugin::CHI/chi purge> or
L<clear|Mojolicious::Plugin::CHI/chi clear>
just the route cache on updates.

=item expires_in

The default lifetime of route cache entries.
Can be either a number of seconds or a
L<duration expression|CHI/DURATION EXPRESSIONS>.
Defaults to C<6 hours>.

=back

All parameters can be set as part of the configuration
file with the key C<CHI-Route> or on registration
(that can be overwritten by configuration).


=head1 CONDITIONS

=head2 chi

The caching works by adding a condition to the route,
that will either render from cache or cache a dynamic rendering.
The condition will always succeed.
Only successfull C<GET> requests will be cached.

=over 2

=item key

The key for the cache.
Accepts either a callback to dynamically define the key or
a string (e.g. for non-dynamic routes without placeholders).
This overrides the default C<key> configuration value.

In case the key is found in the cache, the cache content will be returned.

=item expires_in

The lifetime of the route cache entry.
Can be either a number of seconds or a
L<duration expression|CHI/DURATION EXPRESSIONS>.
This overrides the default C<expires_in> configuration value.

=back

=head1 TROUBLESHOOTING

The cached results will contain a C<X-Cache-CHI> header.

=head1 AVAILABILITY

  https://github.com/Akron/Mojolicious-Plugin-CHI-Route


=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2021, L<Nils Diewald|https://www.nils-diewald.de/>.

This program is free software, you can redistribute it
and/or modify it under the terms of the Artistic License version 2.0.

=cut
